data/blog/life-update.mdx, before:

---
title: Life Update
date: '2022-07-10'
tags: []
draft: true
summary: A few things that have been on my mind recently.
images: []
layout: PostLayout
canonicalUrl: cindyhu.vercel.app/blog/lifeupdate
---

We're now over a month into summer break, and I am bored. Ever since I graduated, pretty much all I've done is sit around at home or help out at my parents' office. Neither of those has been particularly interesting.

I would like for this summer to be more interesting from now on, but it's been a struggle so far.

## Printmaking

So I wanted to take a pottery course at a local art museum, but I kept on procrastinating signing up. (I clearly did not learn my lesson when I put off signing up for IBM's quantum computing summer program and they ran out of spots). That's how I ended up in printmaking, because it ran at the same time.

I've only had one class so far, and the art itself has been pretty cool. Anything that involves vibrant ink is pretty cool. Until it stains your nails, that is. My first project used dark blue, silver, and violet for the background and incorporated a few vaguely wavy-starry stencils.

My mood during that class went from bored and panicky (because everyone was like 10+ years older than me) to very interested (when we actually started working with the ink) to very panicky (when I got out of the classroom 20 minutes late because cleanup was impossible and took forever.) But I now understand the importance of using lots of soap and a sponge rather than trying to do everything with my hands.

## Planning for college

I spent the first few weeks of summer actively avoiding all the admin things I had to do to get ready for college. That was not a good idea. It wasn't until I realized that I had overdue health forms when I finally decided to put together a planning system.

Today I spent a good hour working on the Notion page that I set up a few weeks ago. I was almost entirely inspired by YouTuber Ruby Granger, who filmed a flip-through of her newest academic planner very recently. I've watched her videos for years and I've wanted one of those planners ever since the first one came out two years ago. But because her shop is UK-based, the shipping fee would end up costing almost as much as the planner itself.

I couldn't justify that, so I basically copied my favorite ideas from her flip-through video onto a Notion page. I'm really happy with it so far and hope I'll actually use it. I tend to get bored with planning methods really fast, and then I'm off searching for a new one.

## Math Stuffs

A summary of 2022 so far: I wanted to go to MathCamp. I applied to MathCamp. I didn't get into MathCamp. MathCamp is currently happening. I am not there. I am at home having an existential crisis over whether or not math is still worth pursuing.

I've been asking myself the same questions over and over again. Do I like math, or do I like it because it's familiar and made me stand out in school? Is it important to have talent to go into academia? Why am I only ever interested in useless things?

First question: I know for a fact that the hours I spent grinding AoPS textbooks in middle school were motivated by a sense of duty. I felt like I had to "be productive" and "be good at something," or else I would feel guilty. Math was often the closest thing within reach. And since it's fairly easy to get ahead in elementary school math with the right training, I kind of cemented the "math kid" status before I even saw it coming. In hindsight, I feel like this was my defining label for most of middle school and all of high school. But it didn't help me. It isolated me.

Second question: There are many sayings about how everyone is born with a unique talent. Or several. So I've always wondered about the importance of these talents and how big of an impact they should have on how we lead our lives. To be honest, I don't consider myself to be especially talented in anything, definitely not math. Every single one of my math achievements comes from hard work.

(This is another reason why I hate the Asians-are-all-good-at-math stereotype. Imagine working your a-- off to achieve something that matters to you and then having someone dismiss your success by attributing it to your genes.)

Commit message:

New post
Finished 2nd post

data/blog/life-update.mdx, after:

---
title: Life Update
date: '2022-07-10'
tags: []
draft: false
summary: Printmaking, preparing for college, and generally having an existential crisis.
images: []
layout: PostLayout
canonicalUrl: cindyhu.vercel.app/blog/lifeupdate
---

We're now over a month into summer break, and I am bored. Ever since I graduated, pretty much all I've done is sit around at home or help out at my parents' office. Neither of those has been particularly interesting.

I would like for this summer to be more interesting from now on, but it's been a struggle so far.

## Printmaking

So I wanted to take a pottery course at a local art museum, but I kept on procrastinating signing up. (I clearly did not learn my lesson when I put off signing up for IBM's quantum computing summer program and they ran out of spots). That's how I ended up in printmaking, because it ran at the same time.

I've only had one class so far, and the art itself has been pretty cool. Anything that involves vibrant ink is pretty cool. Until it stains your nails, that is. My first project used dark blue, silver, and violet for the background and incorporated a few vaguely wavy-starry stencils.

My mood during that class went from bored and panicky (because everyone was like 10+ years older than me) to very interested (when we actually started working with the ink) to very panicky (when I got out of the classroom 20 minutes late because cleanup was impossible and took forever.) But I now understand the importance of using lots of soap and a sponge rather than trying to do everything with my hands.

## Planning for college

I spent the first few weeks of summer actively avoiding all the admin things I had to do to get ready for college. That was not a good idea. It wasn't until I realized that I had overdue health forms when I finally decided to put together a planning system.

Today I spent a good hour working on the Notion page that I set up a few weeks ago. I was almost entirely inspired by YouTuber Ruby Granger, who filmed a flip-through of her newest academic planner very recently. I've watched her videos for years and I've wanted one of those planners ever since the first one came out two years ago. But because her shop is UK-based, the shipping fee would end up costing almost as much as the planner itself.

I couldn't justify that, so I basically copied my favorite ideas from her flip-through video onto a Notion page. I'm really happy with it so far and hope I'll actually use it. I tend to get bored with planning methods really fast, and then I'm off searching for a new one.

## Math Stuffs

A summary of 2022 so far: I wanted to go to MathCamp. I applied to MathCamp. I didn't get into MathCamp. MathCamp is currently happening. I am not there. I am at home having an existential crisis over whether or not math is still worth pursuing.

I've been asking myself the same questions over and over again. Do I like math, or do I like it because it's familiar and made me stand out in school? Is it important to have talent to go into academia?

First question: I know for a fact that the hours I spent grinding AoPS textbooks in middle school were motivated by a sense of duty. I felt like I had to "be productive" and "be good at something," or else I would feel guilty. Math was often the closest thing within reach. And since it's fairly easy to get ahead in elementary school math with the right training, I kind of cemented the "math kid" status before I even saw it coming. In hindsight, I feel like this was my defining label for most of middle school and all of high school. But it didn't help me. It isolated me.

Second question: There are many sayings about how everyone is born with a unique talent. Or several. So I've always wondered about the importance of these talents and how big of an impact they should have on how we lead our lives. To be honest, I don't consider myself to be especially talented in anything, definitely not math. Every single one of my math achievements comes from hard work.

(This is another reason why I hate the Asians-are-all-good-at-math stereotype. Imagine working your a-- off to achieve something that matters to you and then having someone dismiss your success by attributing it to your genes.)

Okay, I think this has been a long enough post. I'll wrap things up and write more next time. My philosophizing is not yet done.
